.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.TH binup 1  "binup 0.1.0" 
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH NAME
binup \- Installs or updates CLI utilities directly from GitHub releases
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbinup\fR [\fB\-p\fR|\fB\-\-prefix\fR] [\fB\-a\fR|\fB\-\-apps\fR] [\fB\-\-gh\-token\-source\fR] [\fB\-\-cb\-token\-source\fR] [\fB\-\-minimal\-set\fR] [\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR] [\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR] [\fIsubcommands\fR]
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH DESCRIPTION
Installs or updates CLI utilities directly from GitHub releases
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.PP
Installing into /usr/local does not interfere with packages managed by the system package manager. Both can coexist; which one takes precedence depends on $PATH ordering. In most Linux distributions /usr/local takes priority over /usr.
.PP
Only Linux on x86_64 is supported.
.PP
Shell completions can be generated for ZSH, Bash, and Fish.
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-prefix\fR \fI<PREFIX>\fR [default: /usr/local]
Install prefix (e.g. /usr/local or ~/.local)
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-apps\fR \fI<NAME>\fR
App(s) to install; may be repeated. Defaults to all apps
.TP
\fB\-\-gh\-token\-source\fR \fI<GH_TOKEN_SOURCE>\fR [default: prompt]
Where to load GitHub API token from (prompt or load)
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
prompt
.IP \(bu 2
load
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-cb\-token\-source\fR \fI<CB_TOKEN_SOURCE>\fR [default: load]
Where to load Codeberg API token from (prompt or load)
.br

.br
\fIPossible values:\fR
.RS 14
.IP \(bu 2
prompt
.IP \(bu 2
load
.RE
.TP
\fB\-\-minimal\-set\fR
Install a hand\-picked minimal set of apps (overrides \-\-apps)
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print help
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.TP
binup\-list\-apps\-ids(1)
Print all supported app identifiers
.TP
binup\-completions(1)
Print shell completion script to stdout
.TP
binup\-help(1)
Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Install or update all apps (requires write access to /usr/local):
.RS 4
.nf
\fBbinup\fR
.fi
.RE
.PP
Install a subset of apps:
.RS 4
.nf
\fBbinup\fR \-\-apps rg \-\-apps bat \-\-apps fzf
.fi
.RE
.PP
Install the predefined minimal set:
.RS 4
.nf
\fBbinup\fR \-\-minimal\-set
.fi
.RE
.PP
Install into a user\-local prefix (no root required):
.RS 4
.nf
\fBbinup\fR \-\-prefix ~/.local
.fi
.RE
.PP
List all supported app identifiers:
.RS 4
.nf
\fBbinup\fR list\-apps\-ids
.fi
.RE
.PP
Generate ZSH completions:
.RS 4
.nf
\fBbinup\fR completions zsh
.fi
.RE
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH "API TOKENS"
.PP
GitHub applies rate limiting to unauthenticated API requests. Providing a token avoids hitting those limits.
.PP
GitHub token sources (\fB\-\-gh\-token\-source\fR):
.TP
\fBprompt\fR
Read the token from stdin (default).
.TP
\fBload\fR
Read from the GITHUB_API_TOKEN environment variable, falling back to ~/.config/github/api_token.
.PP
Codeberg token sources (\fB\-\-cb\-token\-source\fR):
.TP
\fBload\fR
Read from the CODEBERG_API_TOKEN environment variable, falling back to ~/.config/codeberg/api_token (default).
.TP
\fBprompt\fR
Read the token from stdin.
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH CACHE
.PP
Downloaded data is cached under ~/.cache/binup/. Release metadata has a one\-hour TTL. Downloaded assets are cached permanently, keyed by asset ID; the cache is invalidated automatically when a new release is published.
.ie \n(.g .ds Aq \(aq
.el .ds Aq '
.SH VERSION
v0.1.0
